#summary More compact documentation.

= Original =

== Methods ==

=== /api/feed/public - Fetch all Public Entries ===

Returns the most recent public entries on !FriendFeed:

http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/public

Using the [http://code.google.com/p/friendfeed-api/ FriendFeed Python library]:

{{{
service = friendfeed.FriendFeed()
feed = service.fetch_public_feed()
for entry in feed["entries"]:
    print entry["title"]
}}}


=== /api/feed/user/NICKNAME - Fetch Entries from a User === 

Returns the most recent entries from the user with the given nickname:

http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/user/bret

If the user has a private feed, authentication is required.

Using the [http://code.google.com/p/friendfeed-api/ FriendFeed Python library]:

{{{
service = friendfeed.FriendFeed()
feed = service.fetch_user_feed("bret")
for entry in feed["entries"]:
    print entry["title"]
}}}


=== /api/feed/user/NICKNAME/comments - Fetch Entries a User Has Commented On === 

Returns the most recent entries the user has commented on, ordered by the date of that user's comments:

http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/user/bret/comments

If the user has a private feed, authentication is required.

= More compact table organization =

<table>
<tr><td>*Method*</td><td>*Description*</td></tr>
<tr>
  <td valign="top">[http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/public /api/feed/public]</td>
  <td>Returns the most recent public entries on !FriendFeed.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td valign="top">[http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/user/bret /api/feed/user/NICKNAME]</td>
  <td>Returns the most recent entries from the user with the given nickname.  If the user has a private feed, authentication is required.</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td valign="top">[http://friendfeed.com/api/feed/user/bret/comments /api/feed/user/NICKNAME/comments]</td>
  <td>Returns the most recent entries the user has commented on, ordered by the date of that user's comments.  If the user has a private feed, authentication is required.</td>
</tr>
</table>

Move python library documentation to pydoc comments.
